[ Silence ]
>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe any more.
>> Need to keep on to help
uncover what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
>> We weren't told
the entire story.
>> And now the host
of the nationally syndicated,
Coast to Coast A.M.
[applause] and  Gaiam TV
bring you Beyond Belief
with George Noory.
>> George Noory: And
welcome to  Beyond Belief .
You know, all of us at one time
will face the inevitable --
our own passing.
Our special guest on  Beyond
Belief  is a noted media host
and also says that he
experienced a couple
life experiences.
Please welcome John St.
Augustine [applause].
Welcome.
>> John St. Augustine:
Good to see you.
>> George Noory: What the
heck happened to you twice?
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, boy.
You know, when you're 19
and you're bulletproof,
that's when the universe
sends a lot of the messages
that you need to
learn some things.
Yeah. I was 19 years old, I was
working at a small drug store,
bailing boxes, working
part-time,
my way through school, and
I was putting these boxes
in on January 19, 1978,
10 o'clock at night --
I remember it all clearly -- and
I closed the machine and I went
to press the button on the
back and there's a nice star --
scar on my thumb where the
electricity went through
and melted my hand and that was
it -- 550 volts for about...
>> George Noory: Ouch!
>> John St. Augustine:
...15-20 seconds.
Yeah. The big -- the
big thick chords.
>> George Noory: Were
you locked on it?
>> John St. Augustine:
I could not get off.
>> George Noory: Or
did it throw you?
>> John St. Augustine:
It had me locked on
and I had closed the door, so
I had a nice circuit going.
The only thing that saved me was
I was wearing rubber soled shoes
on cement and I was somehow
able to get my left hand off,
it threw it me to the floor.
Half my hand was
stuck on the wall,
the other half on the machine.
>> George Noory: Oww.
>> John St. Augustine: Pretty --
pretty difficult stuff,
but I had no pulse.
I was done.
I was out, and coincidentally
-- synchronistically,
the pharmacist happened
to stay late that night
and he was a Vietnam
vet who was a medic.
He knew exactly what
to do to revive me,
but as this was happening, I
was watching it happen, just,
kind of, right above it.
>> GN: Floating above, huh?
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
It was very weird.
You know, I'm from Chicago.
We don't even put ketchup on
our hotdogs, so this was way --
way out of my comfort zone
at 19 years old, so I came to
and this guy -- I was
watching this guy sitting
on my chest pounding
my chest saying John,
John, wake up, and I did.
And I had this immediate,
kind of,
vacuum cleaner whoosh feeling
and I was watching
this guy pounding on me
and I thought what are you
doing sitting on my chest,
even though I had
already seen it.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Coincidentally,
the fire department was
driving right past the store
when it happened.
Coincidentally, they
had all kinds
of equipment to help burns.
They took me to the same
hospital I was born in and I was
up on the seventh
floor of the burn unit,
I had pretty bad burns on my
hands, and it was all kind
of melted together and I stayed
in there for a few weeks.
I kept having these recurring
thoughts about what happened,
and this isn't part
of my plan, you know,
I'm supposed to go
to ball games.
>> GN: You didn't ask for this.
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, no,
no, nobody signs up for this,
but I believe that I did.
>> GN: Had he not been there,
would you have been here?
>> John St. Augustine:
I wouldn't be sitting
here talking to you.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
I'm pretty sure of that.
I mean, it was pretty obvious to
me that what happened to me --
later on when they
took the machine apart,
there was a major
electrical malfunction,
and there were a lot of
young ladies working there
and they said if they
had touched it --
you know, half my size, they
would have never made it off.
So, it went exactly how
it was supposed to go.
I started to learn
early the difference
between an accident
and an incident.
Accidents are things
that happen to you,
incidents are things
that go through you.
>> GN: Exactly.
Yeah. Was there any pain
involved here, John?
>> John St. Augustine: No pain.
Nothing at all.
Not until after I
came back to my body
that my hand hurt like...
>> GN: Did you want
to come back?
>> John St. Augustine:
It wasn't even a thought.
It was just like you're out,
you're watching it,
it's like a movie...
>> GN: You have no control.
>> John St. Augustine:
and then you're back.
Yeah. It's just like
you're back.
I didn't have any voices.
I didn't hear anybody say
John, it's time to go.
>> GN: That's right
>> John St. Augustine:
None of that stuff.
>> GN: Don't go into the light.
>> John St. Augustine:
Do not go to the light.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: No, none
of that, and it was just there,
and, of course there
was a lot of pain
and if anybody's ever
experienced burns,
they're just really, really
difficult to deal with --
a lot of infection and things,
but a profound lesson came
out of that experience
-- quite a few.
But the big one was about
two weeks after I was
in the hospital they gave
me these little sponges
with like bristles on one side
and the sponge on the other,
and you put water on
them and you clean.
You've got to clean
all the dead skin.
>> GN: Skin.
You've got to take it off
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
In order for it to heal.
>> GN: Like a callous remover.
>> John St. Augustine: Exactly.
Exactly, and it's not fun.
I don't prescribe it to anybody,
but it was what I
had to go through.
And a girl that had graduated
a couple years earlier than me
in high school -- I was 19
at the time, she was a nurse
at the same hospital and
we kind of knew each other,
but she showed up just on time,
she helped me clean my wounds
and she walked out
and I liked it
because she was really pretty.
So, I'm like, I'll sit here
for a year and do this...
>> GN: Sure.
>> John St. Augustine: ...if
that's what you want to do,
but eventually she said
to me something profound
that was not just about that,
but it was about my whole life
and our lives, and she said, the
moment you take responsibility
for the pain is the moment
you'll begin to really heal.
And so...
>> GN: Interesting.
>> John St. Augustine: ...I
had to scrub my own wounds
and then I've learned --
my belief is, my thought is
over my lifetime that once we --
life is going to squeeze
us all, but once we learn
to take responsibility
for that --
not the process of what's
happening, but what's going
through us, things begin
to shift dramatically.
You don't need to be shocked.
Apparently, I did, but.
>> GN: At that point do you
have a different outlook?
>> John St. Augustine:
Not at 19.
>> GN: About what...
>> John St. Augustine:
Are you kidding me?
>> GN: I didn't think so.
>> John St. Augustine:
How much money can I get?
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
I bought a car.
Yeah, I mean, I got a...
>> GN: Little insurance
settlement.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah,
they didn't want me to sue,
it was a major company -- I
could probably say it now,
it doesn't really matter now,
they're based in the mid-west,
and I remember going
to the hearing
and they assigned a money
amount to my digits --
you can kind of see where
this stuff had happened,
they assigned how much each
of my fingers was worth,
and it was just enough
to buy a '69 Z28.
>> GN: How about that.
>> John St. Augustine:
I loved it.
I thought this is a
good -- I'm alive.
>> GN: Do you still
have that car?
You should have kept it.
>> John St. Augustine: Oh,
I wish I could have kept it.
>> GN: You should have kept it.
>> John St. Augustine:
No, I didn't.
I traded it for a
motorcycle and, like,
two cases of beer, or something.
I don't remember [laughter].
>> GN: And you still have
the scars on your hand.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
You can see them on my
hand, here and here,
and here's where I pressed
the button right here.
>> GN: Hold your hand up to that
camera right there, you know,
just take a picture of that.
>> John St. Augustine:
My fingers aren't
in very good shape, and what
happened was, if you look --
none of you get to look, but
people close to me get to look,
there's lines all
through my body
where the electricity
bounced around --
these little white --
it leaves scar marks.
Yeah. So, it really was a
bizarre interesting thing
at the time.
I really try not to wear any
jewelry or watches since then,
because it kind of
freaks me out.
They had to cut the cross
out of my chest, and...
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Just not a good experience.
>> GN: Feel like
a human antennae.
>> John St. Augustine:
It really was, you know,
and at the time -- this
was 1979, so Lee Majors was
on with the  Six
Million Dollar Man ...
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: ...so
they gave me a shirt, you know,
powered by, you know...
>> GN: Exactly.
>> John St. Augustine:
And it was --
and I started to realize too
about the energetic
part of our bodies.
You know, we're all energy
-- that's the bottom line.
We're all -- our
batteries go up and down,
depending on how we
feed that charge.
>> GN: That energy.
>> John St. Augustine: And for
weeks and weeks after that,
I could do -- even though
my hand was in bad shape,
I like, knew everything.
I knew when the phone
was going to ring.
I knew what my mom
was going to make
for dinner two days
later, you know.
Really, really something.
And that stayed with me
for about six, eight months
and just, kind of, slowly,
you know, dropped off
and I really think
that there's something
to the Frankenstein
concept of electricity...
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> John St. Augustine:
...and electricity going
through our bodies.
>> GN: Jump starts you.
>> John St. Augustine: Sure.
I don't recommend it.
>> GN: Not like that.
>> John St. Augustine: No,
but that was really something.
>> GN: That was near death
experience number one.
You had another one.
>> John St. Augustine:
I was 19 years old
when the first one happened
and eight years later, I'm 27.
I had just gotten married,
starting a new life.
Working -- running heavy
equipment with my John name
over my shirt pocket and a
step increase every six months
and playing softball
on Friday's,
and drinking on Saturday.
>> GN: Life is good, right?
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, I
had it all made, and two weeks
after we got married,
we were driving
out to a village near Chicago.
I was off on that
particular Monday
and it was a four-day work
week, and we went out --
let's go get the
wedding pictures.
This is great, we're
having a good time.
Pick up the wedding
pictures, we're coming back
and we come to a T intersection.
Traffic north and
south is stopped.
I'm driving a 1983
Pontiac Firebird --
not the biggest of cars,
and I'm getting ready
to make a left-hand turn to
go north to eventually get
on the highway to go
back into Chicago,
and out of nowhere comes
wakeup call number two.
Drunk driver -- Lincoln
Continental --
60 miles an hour
-- ran the light.
>> GN: Like a tank.
>> John St. Augustine: Like
a tank, and hit me right
at the door seam,
like right here.
And it hurt -- that
hurt -- that one hurt.
>> GN: That one hurt.
>> John St. Augustine:
And the car, basically,
folded into a V. It
spun around three times.
He kept going.
Horrifying screeching, metal,
concrete kind of
stuff, you know.
>> GN: Sound that stays
in your mind forever.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, you know, that --
the smell of burnt flesh and
the screeching of concrete
with metal -- not two of my
biggest favorite experiences.
>> GN: Right.
>> John St. Augustine: And I was
out for a second and I came to
and I remember my wife, at the
time, running down the street
and I saw our wedding
pictures spinning down...
>> GN: Just going
all over the place.
>> John St. Augustine:
Just sprayed out,
and people horrified
watching this
in the cars at the stoplight.
And a woman came
over and, you know,
they talk about how
the windshields
on the cars are supposed
to shatter.
That didn't happen to this one.
My right hand -- you
can't see, you can kind
of see this scar a little bit,
cut this artery right here.
Went right through
the windshield.
>> GN: That hand has
had some abuse, huh?
>> John St. Augustine:
It's taken some beating.
Yeah.
>> GN: Geez.
>> John St. Augustine: You
know I can't play the piano.
I never could, but I
really can't play it now.
But my hand went through
the window and it cut this
and the blood was doing the
whole watering the yard kind
of thing, and this woman
showed up at the door,
and my knees went through the
dashboard, I, you know, --
the steering wheel
went into my chest.
It was pretty tough.
Not a lot of room there to move
around in those little cars,
and this woman came to the door
and she pushed the window in
and she was wearing all white,
and I thought oh,
she's an angel.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: She was a
nurse who has just got off duty.
>> GN: She might
have been an angel.
>> John St. Augustine:
She could have been,
and I don't discount
it to this day.
I remember her name --
Cassie White, if you're
still alive, God bless you.
She came up and felt my pulse
and said I think you're going
to be okay, but you need to
pray, and then I was out.
That was all I remember.
>> GN: Reminds me of a few
weeks ago of an accident.
>> John St. Augustine:
With the priest.
>> GN: With the priest
in Missouri.
>> John St. Augustine: Yes, yes.
>> GN: And they finally
found the priest.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: I'm not sure it was him.
>> GN: I mean how could
you have an accident scene.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: And this is where a
priest showed up on an accident
where a woman was
trapped in her car.
They couldn't get her out,
and he prayed with her...
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: ...and the -- and the
police department saying she'll
be okay-- she'll be okay.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: And he was gone,
and nobody could find him.
They took 80 pictures
of the accident scene...
>> John St. Augustine:
He was nowhere.
And they had closed the
highway off, as I recall.
So, how did he get there?
>> GN: Yeah.
How did he get in and out?
Absolutely bizarre.
So these two experiences
with you, did what to you?
>> John St. Augustine: Well,
they made me realize
this isn't the beginning.
It's the middle and not the end.
How we experience our lives.
You know, when that happened
and I was out, the paramedics
that showed up on the
scene, I knew all of them
and they had covered me
with the black body bag,
and then once again,
here I was going,
oh here's a new movie for John.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: One I'm
not liking this time either,
but what's going on here,
and this was far
more hypersensitive.
I could -- it was like I
had radar for 25 miles.
I knew what somebody was
cooking over hearing a dog,
and I could hear, and it
was actually really cool,
but it wasn't worth the
price of admission..
>> GN: No.
>> John St. Augustine: ...the
second time [laughter].
>> GN: St. Augustine: This
was closer to real dying.
>> John St. Augustine: This was
really, really something and --
and I thought to myself
what is this all about.
And, you know, again,
no big light experience.
It was just like you have work
to do and you're not done and --
and you'll know what
that is as life unfolds.
And by the time --
and I could watch --
what I felt, most
importantly, was huge empathy
for these guys working
to get me out.
I could feel so deeply
what they felt...
>> GN: Right.
>> John St. Augustine:
Even though I didn't feel
that during the day when I
worked with some of these guys,
and I had this huge empathy
for these men that were crying
in some ways, because they
knew who was in there.
>> GN: You could hear voices?
>> John St. Augustine: They
could not get me out of there.
Yeah. And, I mean, I
get goose bumps thinking
about it all these years later.
And when I was back in the bag
-- once they got the door opened
and the bag was over
me, I sat up,
and I scared the you
know what out of them.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
And I got out of the car
and I said I'm going
to walk home.
It's 35 miles -- 20
miles, but I was...
>> GN: Spurred you on.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, you know.
It's just a mess, and --
well, we're going to take you
to the hospital first.
They wrapped me up, took me to
the hospital, and I went home
that night, which
was really amazing...
>> GN: Bizarre.
>> John St. Augustine:
...considering the injuries,
but that didn't leave me
quick like the first one did.
I knew somewhere, somehow there
was something more for me to do
than what I was presently
experiencing.
>> GN: Right.
>> John St. Augustine: And
if this voice was true,
eventually it would show itself,
and it really shifted my life.
I thought, it's great
to run heavy equipment,
but I'm being asked
to do something else,
which I hadn't done radio,
hadn't written books,
hadn't done 99% of what I
would go on to do in life,
and I really believe, for my
own blueprint, that this the --
this was setup just that way.
It took years, George, for
me to forgive that guy.
Years. I didn't get a
new car out of that one.
>> GN: I don't blame you.
>> John St. Augustine:
But, you know, the guy,
he was an alcoholic, I think,
but also empathy was
the rule of the day.
>> GN: They say it's
a very important way
for you to forgive.
>> John St. Augustine:
Well, it is, and life...
>> GN: I'm not sure
I can do that.
>> John St. Augustine:
Well it's,
you know, it's very difficult.
It goes against every human
part of us, but the being part
of us is saying this
ain't it, and we're going
to keep throwing
stuff in your way
until you learn these things.
And, empathy opens so
many doors, and sympathy,
and forgiveness I can't begin --
it took eight years
to forgive him.
Eight years.
And I wasted eight years
focusing on the guy,
rather than the accident,
not the incident.
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> John St. Augustine: You know,
there was a reason
this man drank.
There was a reason
he acted that way.
He did me a favor,
in the long run,
but it took me years
to see that.
>> GN: John St. Augustine
with us.
Let's take some questions
from you
on his near death experiences.
Anybody have any questions?
Yes, mam.
>> Jessica: Hi.
>> John St. Augustine: Morning.
>> Jessica: My name's Jessica.
I'm wondering, what did
you do to change your life
after your second
accident and have --
has what you changed
helped other people,
and what can we learn from it?
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, yeah.
You know, there's ego, which
is like I'm running the show,
and then, eventually
the ego gets ground
down over a lifetime, and little
things, like car accidents,
electrocutions --
you start to listen
and I think the universe is
always sending us opportunities
to get out of that --
little and -- big and small.
It could be something as simple
as moving out of the way in line
at a supermarket -- do they
call them supermarkets anymore?
>> GN: I do.
>> John St. Augustine: Okay.
They -- little as lines, like,
you know what you go first,
and instead of just all
about me, and when it's --
when you realize it's not just
about me but it's about we.
When you really, really
start to get that, you know,
when you travel and you spend
time and you get to talk
with people, you really get
a sense of the we and not me,
and the more you get into the we
and less of me, then you start
to understand that there's
bigger things for us to do,
and so those accidents --
incidents that were disguised
as accidents, I really
understand that both
of those were setup for me to
get to we and get out of me.
And then you can do the work
that you're supposed
to do in the world.
I just really -- I'm really
stubborn, and I'm a Neanderthal,
knuckle-dragger from
the mid-west at heart,
but I also realize that that
what setup for me to get
out in a way that's for me.
Yours is going to be different.
I always say to people,
whoever invented the alarm clock
was brilliant.
Whoever put a snooze button
on was an idiot, and so we --
in life we have these alarm
clocks going off all the time --
car accidents, whatever --
we're going to talk about some
of these other thing
I've experienced,
those are the wakeup calls.
You're not supposed
to go back to sleep.
You're supposed to stay away,
but we usually hit
the snooze button.
You ever had that?
You hit the snooze button.
>> GN: And go back to sleep.
>> John St. Augustine:
What's the point
of having an alarm
clock, you know.
So, our life is like these alarm
clocks constantly going off.
Pay attention, stay awake, if
you don't life will wake you
up again and I think the knocks
get louder, the less we listen.
Does that help?
>> GN: Yes.
Thank you.
>> John St. Augustine: Good.
>> GN: I guess, John you were in
no rush not to come back, right?
>> John St. Augustine: No rush.
No rush. It's a different
feeling.
Go back to the sympathy thing
and you can call it love,
you can call it whatever you
want, but that is so pervasive,
and I'm sure you've
talked to people
who have the same experiences.
This -- it's the oneness
we're all looking for.
You just want to get
electrocuted to get it --
or get in a car accident, but
when you have that feeling,
you don't want to give it up,
and this is the proving
ground for that.
This side of the fence.
I've had the opportunity to peek
over the fence a couple times
to over there, and whatever
that is for me is different
than what this is here for me.
>> GN: Sure, and you'll
get there eventually.
>> John St. Augustine:
Well, we're all going.
>> GN: You don't
have to run there.
>> John St. Augustine: By the
way -- exactly, and, you know,
the thing about it is I
really get that we come
in on time, you go out on time.
To be worried about
when you're going
to die negates the whole
opportunity to be alive.
We spend so much time worrying
about and it's fascinated me,
you know, on the human
level of things, you're --
if you're lucky, you make
77.6 years in this country --
in America, that's 28,000 some
odd days, and you're going
to worry about dying
while you're alive.
I find that fascinating.
So, when we learn the major
and minor things all the time,
we get minor results, and when
life presents you opportunities
to do major things -- do
radio shows, get on do TV,
write books, that's the
brass ring you might want
to grasp onto.
Something that you have
in your life you can share
with somebody else.
It expands their
boundaries immensely.
That's what we're here to do.
Be more like that
which we came from.
>> GN: John, did these
two experiences --
did they make your life a
little more conservative,
a little more reckless?
Did you change at
all because of that?
>> John St. Augustine:
I think that --
that's a really good question.
You ask good questions.
I think that's probably
why you do what you do.
>> GN: Whatever I do.
>> John St. Augustine:
If I were too guess.
Yeah. You know what, it
made me more serious,
which I don't like, but it made
me more serious about things
that are important,
which I do like.
>> GN: Good.
>> John St. Augustine:
And -- but I am --
you know, I'll go and jump
on a zip line, if I can.
I still want to go swim with
a -- have a great white,
you know, in a cage though.
I want to feel these
things that I felt that day
that came at such a high price.
You know, I was thinking
about this this morning,
when you realize the odds of
being born are astronomical,
then you want to
experience as much.
I mean, just the opportunity
to be born is ridiculous.
It's just an amazing
process, so to get here
and go oh God, I'm bored.
I find that fascinating, and
if you do that long enough,
life will come along and
shake you to wake you up.
So to me, it's -- it's always
the balance, you know, I'm very,
very serious about these things.
I don't take myself seriously,
but I take these things
that I've seen and felt in other
people's lives very seriously,
because I think, much like
yourself and much like Jessica,
and all of us, we're all
messengers in our way,
and when you feel that, that's
what brings you alive, you know.
>> GN: Well, you -- I've
always looked at it too --
all of us, we are the
offspring of our parents
and our father's winner.
We got -- we got
to the egg first.
>> John St. Augustine:
Exactly right.
You know, I don't know
what the exact number is,
it's like one in one carillon.
>> GN: Yeah, and we
were the winners.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, so when you're here.
>> GN: Everybody
here is a winner.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
So. Everybody's trying
to win a lottery --
I'm like you already did.
>> GN: Let's take
another question for John.
Who's got one?
Yes, mam.
>> Suzanna: Hi, John.
My name is Suzanna.
My question for you is,
do you feel that incidents
like these are messages
from a creator?
>> John St. Augustine:
I couldn't hear her.
>> GN: Messages from
a creator --
the things that happened to you.
>> John St. Augustine: You
want to go deep, don't you?
Okay. I think that we are not
the creator, but we are part
of the creator, and so these
things that happened to me,
I believe were more
or less a blueprint.
I believe we all
have a blueprint.
You get to read the script
a little bit more each day.
You get to pick and choose what
comes your way, you know, you --
I'll do this, but I won't'
do this, and so like --
life is like an equal
opportunity employer
that you can grow from --
or destroyer, if you
decide to go that route.
So, if they are subliminal
messages or messages
from the creator -- yes,
but I had this experience
this morning.
It was about 4 o'clock in
the morning and I'm staying
in a haunted hotel
in Boulder, Colorado.
>> GN: Perfect.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, it is perfect.
You -- that's why we...
>> GN: We caught that.
That's right.
We put you in that [laughter].
>> John St. Augustine:
In that room.
>> GN: We have an Alfred
Hitchcock sick sense
of humor [laughter].
>> John St. Augustine: But,
the thought came to me --
and this is for me, whether you
agree or not, that's up to you,
that there's no creator outside
of us, it's inside of us,
and if it's inside of
us, then it's all of us,
and so whatever comes from me
-- both negative and positive.
The stuff that comes on the
lower vibrational end of myself,
you know, I get upset
at politics, and sports,
and crap -- that's
ego-driven stuff,
but the higher-minded stuff,
the things of being here today,
when just a couple
weeks ago, you know,
it just all falls together --
that's the God-type of stuff,
the creator-type of stuff
and the more I get connected
to that, the easier or more
interesting my life gets.
The less I do, the
more difficult gets.
So, I think there's a blueprint.
I think the blueprint's
in each of us.
I think that there's a
designer of the blueprint --
or architect of the blueprint,
but it's not a removed
architect, it's built within us.
Does that help?
Okay.
>> GN: By the way, we
had cameras in your room
for our new reality
show [laughter],
which we're going to air...
>> John St. Augustine:
Scare the crap out of John.
>> GN: That's right.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
I like that.
>> GN: Something like that.
You grew up in Chicago.
I grew up in Detroit.
>> John St. Augustine:
Oh, yes, yes.
>> GN: I've got some similar
experiences in the mid-west,
which I truly appreciate.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: These two experiences
-- did you see the traditional,
you know, light at
the end of the tunnel?
Your dead relatives
were there to meet you?
>> John St. Augustine:
All lined up with harps.
>> GN: Yeah.
Did any of that happen?
>> John St. Augustine: No,
and I -- I think, for me,
go back to the blueprint.
I think that whatever
it is that's supposed
to stimulate my experiences
-- how I will experience it,
you know, as I said, you know,
much like yourself, you know,
a grind and pound way of
growing up in my life.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: And
that's what comes to me.
I rarely have angels floating
around, singing me songs.
I don't get that.
It comes to me in a way
I can understand it.
It's much like music.
It's much like radio.
I connect with certain
vibrational frequencies,
and I don't listen to other
ones, so why would I --
they wouldn't make
any sense to me,
and so my life experiences
-- the people I'm around,
the people I connect with,
the experiences I have from,
you know, having to have
the middle seat on the plane
out here, talking to these two
guys -- that's my experience.
I'm a middle seat
kind of guy, you know,
so they come to me that way.
>> GN: Are you afraid
of dying again?
>> John St. Augustine: No.
No.
>> GN: None, at all.
>> John St. Augustine:
I'm afraid of not living.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Fully, living.
I'm afraid of not getting
enough goose bumps.
I'm afraid of not -- you know,
I get up at 4 o'clock most
every morning just to look at...
>> GN: Oh, wow.
But you're not reckless.
>> John St. Augustine:
No, no, no, I mean,
I don't think that
I'd want to...
>> GN: I'm going to drive
through an intersection
with my eyes closed.
>> John St. Augustine: No.
>> GN: None of that right?
>> John St. Augustine:
No, no, no, no, no.
I don't need to prove
anything anymore.
I've seen -- I think what I've
been given has been presented
to me in two big wake up calls.
I get little ones, because I do
hit the snooze button, you know,
whether it's donating
an organ to my daughter,
or walking a 1,000
mile round trip in --
in a way that I never
thought I would.
I'm not reckless.
I'm cautiously optimistic.
>> GN: What did you donate?
>> John St. Augustine: A kidney.
>> GN: You did?
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, 11 years ago.
And that my friend...
>> GN: Tell me about the
-- what happened there?
>> John St. Augustine:
See, that's major woo-woo.
That really pushed John out of
any comfort zone I had left.
My daughter, Amanda Lee,
was born with kidney reflux,
which is very common --
did not grow out of it.
>> GN: What is that?
>> John St. Augustine: It's
when the ureter that goes
into the kidney which you
would urinate, it wouldn't --
it would go out of the
kidney and sit back in her...
>> GN: In her inner bladder?
>> John St. Augustine:
Inner bladder.
>> GN: That's your backup.
>> John St. Augustine:
In the backup.
Yeah.
>> GN: Okay.
>> John St. Augustine: So,
the kidneys got diseased,
and so when she -- it
didn't reverse itself.
We thought it would
-- it never did.
So when she was five years old,
Chicago Children's Hospital,
they said we're going
to go reset that,
and the day before they
were supposed to do it,
which is tough enough anyway
-- we're young parents,
I got a call and the guy said,
well I've got good
news and bad news.
The good news is I'm the
new doctor on the surgery,
the bad news is we have to
take her right kidney out.
And when you've got
a five-year-old,
if you've ever had
sick kids, you know,
that's really difficult.
>> GN: It's like
getting stabbed yourself.
>> John St. Augustine:
But the guy
that called was named
Dr. Kevin Gandhi.
>> GN: Well, I like that.
>> John St. Augustine:
I liked that, too.
I thought, well.
And I was expecting to show
up and see a little bald guy
with a, you know, thing on --
it wasn't like that at all.
>> GN: We're going to
take out the kidney.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
It's coming out whether
you like it or not.
And -- and he did this
amazing surgery and he came
up afterwards, and he says I
think eventually she'll be okay.
She had a quarter of her
left kidney working still,
and I go in to see her
after the surgery --
tubes, the whole thing.
She's all drugged up.
>> GN: Okay.
One kidney's gone.
>> John St. Augustine:
A quarter of a kidney left.
>> GN: A quarter
of a kidney left.
>> John St. Augustine: On the
left side, and the next day,
the medical team came
in and pronounced
that here's what was
going to happen in a year.
She'd need a dialysis every
day and eventually be put
on a waiting list, and
all these kinds of things,
because that's how they
-- that's how it happens.
>> GN: That's life.
>> John St. Augustine:
That's life.
That's how it is.
Well, I've already been
fried and hit by a car,
so maybe go somewhere else with
this, and I started talking,
right, and said Amanda,
we can do what they say,
which is their protocol
and I give it to them.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: But,
maybe there's another route,
and I'm -- had been interested
ever since the car accident,
about the mind body connection.
I'd been on Xanax, at the
time, back then, way too long
and I thought I got to
mentally get out of this.
>> GN: Yeah.
We're going to get into
how you got off that.
>> John St. Augustine:
So, I said to her --
because I had the
experience, I said,
what are we going to be today?
What can you be today?
And she was five years
old with tubes in her,
and she said positive in
my kidneys getting better.
And I started asking
that question,
George for eight years.
Every day.
Couple hundred times a day.
And the answer was
always different.
She was pretty bored.
Okay, dad I'm better.
My kidney's fine, you know.
But, after about three years
of this, we went back in --
we'd always get checkups
every six to eight weeks,
whatever it was, and
the doctor said --
they called all these surgeons
in and go, look at this,
and she was having what's
called compensatory growth
on her kidney, which
is unheard of.
Livers regenerate, but
kidneys aren't supposed to.
>> GN: Kidneys don't,
but this was.
>> John St. Augustine:
A little bulb popped up,
and I thought well,
isn't that interesting.
And of course, they
took all the credit --
well, it's all the
-- that's fine.
They didn't know I was asking
her this question every day.
So, we went on until she was 13,
and the kidney was wearing out.
Her body was changing,
she was becoming a woman.
My father and grandfather
both dies
of polycystic kidney disease.
It's a heredity...
>> GN: It's genetic.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
My sister didn't have it.
There's only two of us.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Here's Johnny,
and I really resisted
getting tested.
I don't want to feed it.
I don't want to get into that.
I don't want to give
it any energy,
so I go through all these
battery of tests, and they say,
yeah, you're the
perfect candidate.
I was 43, I was in
really great shape,
but we have to do an ultrasound
to determine whether those
cysts are on your kidneys.
If I got it, I can't
give her a kidney,
then we got some
serious problems.
We already got serious problems,
we don't need more than that,
so I went for six
weeks, you know,
the whole forgetting
everything I've learned
in my wake up calls.
Going why is this happening and
what am I going to do about it?
The same place where I
live in Michigan now,
Native American friends of
mine have this big lodge
on their property and I went in
on a Saturday morning, May 2002,
and they were doing
a ceremony there,
which I just happened
to walk in on.
And I sat in a north direction
chair, and the gentleman,
Bruce Hardwick, who
owns the property
and does all this stuff, he
was doing this naming ceremony
and there was another
guy sitting in the west
and then there was a
woman sitting in the east,
and I sat in a chair
much like this,
and I thought well it's
a beautiful Saturday,
I took my shoes off and I was
rubbing my feet in the sand
and kind of listening
to what's going on.
And I have out-of-body
experience,
but not death experience,
number three.
All of sudden, I'm
-- and you got
to remember, I'm from Chicago.
We just don't do this, so
this is still really pushing
my buttons.
All of a sudden, I'm watching me
in the chair while
all this is going on,
and I feel this enormous
presence coming
from outside this lodge, which
is, you know, 40 feet high
in the middle, big
poles, fire going,
very much what you'd
see in a movie.
And he's still talking
and everything --
the flies are still
flying around
and this enormous force is
coming, and all of a sudden,
through -- and I'm not
kidding, this really happened.
Through the wall of the
lodge a man walks through
and it's like he's on rounds.
He's got a red beard,
red hair, and blue eyes,
and a tunic with a robe,
and he's just on rounds.
He comes walking past the guy
talking and he comes right
through the fire, and he walks
up to my body in the chair,
and he puts his arms
around my lower body --
right here, about here,
and he takes his hands out
and they're covered with tar,
and he says to me in the chair.
John, you don't need this
anymore, and next thing I know,
I'm in the chair and
all this happened.
And the guy's still talking
and the flies are still
flying around, my [inaudible]
like what the hell is this.
Then I went huh, and as soon as
I said that, the first thought
that came into my mind said,
oh that was the Jesus man.
I don't even go to church.
This was so far beyond
my comprehension.
I left. I went down
and told my wife,
I said you're not
going to believe this.
I told her what happened.
We told nobody else.
Three days later we go
to get the ultrasound.
They do the wand thing and
I'm goofing around like,
am I pregnant, you know, we're
having a -- because I'm nervous.
I don't know what's going on in
here, and the woman just happen
to be someone we
knew -- was the tech,
and she said you're supposed
to wait for the official word
from the doctor, but there's
scarring on your kidneys.
Whatever was there
is gone, and I...
>> GN: A miracle.
>> John St. Augustine: And
I, you know, to this day,
11 years later, my
daughter's kidney is perfect --
the one I gave her.
She's never had a problem.
It's powered by things
bigger than me and, you know,
that's probably, of all
the experiences I've had
in my little blueprint here --
my little path, most humbling.
I wrote about it
in my second book.
I got a flood of mail saying I
should go to church more often,
you know, stuff like
that, but that, to me,
that's not what that was about.
>> GN: That's amazing.
>> John St. Augustine:
And I was very clear.
I was one stop of many for
whatever this was all about.
It was just a brief thing
and on to the next one.
>> GN: I bet you
didn't even think twice
about donating that kidney.
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, no,
and if I could grow
them, I'd give them away.
>> GN: Good for you.
>> John St. Augustine:
There's a huge...
>> GN: How many people
would do that?
>> John St. Augustine:
Oh, I don't, there --
they have angel donors now.
People that step forward.
But here's what I learned too
about those first two incidents,
you know, we think this is
ours -- it's a meat suit.
This is -- this is our machine.
>> GN: Yep.
>> John St. Augustine:
It's like our car.
We take better care of our
cars than we do our bodies.
>> GN: That's true.
>> John St. Augustine:
You know, unfortunately.
And we have spare parts
for cars all the time
to make them run better.
It is, for me, the height
of being egotistical to say,
I'm taking all this with me and
putting it in a box and going
to store it somewhere,
never to be used again
in this time around, and if
someone of the we can use that,
you know, that's
like, God-stuff.
We didn't create this suite.
We didn't put all
this stuff in here.
How dare we say it's mine.
>> GN: These two experiences
-- the donating of the kidney,
what did it do to your life?
>> John St. Augustine: Well,
it's just an [background
talking] expansion
on everything else
I've done, you know,
now I have opportunity.
I did your show a
few months ago.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: I get
to speak all over the world.
>> GN: I still get
responses from that.
>> John St. Augustine: I do too.
It's usually hate mail.
No, no, [laughter] I'm kidding.
>> GN: That was from me.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah [laughter].
You have a lot of
aliases, I see.
But I get to speak
all over the world --
all over the country and do
these things, and, you know,
and it's -- it's -- I have
to almost do it sublimely,
because I go out and speak
in corporations and things,
and yet people are starving to
death to remember who they are,
and it's so easy to forget,
you know, when you get caught
up in the reality shows and
what's going on in politics
and sports and things,
and, you know,
I say to people all the time,
and if you take nothing away
from this today -- can I do like
an audience participation thing?
>> GN: Soon.
>> John St. Augustine: Soon?
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: Okay.
>> GN: Oh, do you
want to do it now?
>> John St. Augustine: Sure.
Can I do it now?
Spur of the moment.
>> GN: What do you want to do?
>> John St. Augustine:
If you've ever been
to a cemetery, raise your hand.
Put them down.
If you've ever seen
Democrat or Republican
on a headstone, raise your hand.
I'm 100 for 100.
If it ain't important then,
it ain't important now.
We get caught up in things
that are none of our business.
Our lives, the things he
talks about in his show.
That's our business.
Our business is to be alive
and be living and part
of the we and not just me.
>> GN: Every day you
do this now don't you?
>> John St. Augustine: It's
really annoying [laughter],
because I can't let it go.
If I let it go, I
get a wakeup call.
You know, I'm on the
plane between these two --
I was telling the guys
backstage, it was really funny,
I got on a plane, and I'm like
a self-appointed air marshal,
of course, you know, because
I'm going to take care of stuff,
you know, so I always
sit on the aisle.
There was no aisle seat.
>> GN: You're ready,
just in case.
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, yeah.
I sit in the front -- five rows
-- within the first five rows,
so if somebody runs...
>> GN: You're the blocker.
>> John St. Augustine:
Well, sure, you know.
>> GN: What if he had
to go to the bathroom?
>> John St. Augustine:
I'm taking him out --
taking him out, anyway.
>> GN: Poor guy.
>> John St. Augustine:
He's done, you know, so --
but I sat between these
two guys who were the --
they were salesmen and they
had the thin watches on
and the perfect hair, and they
looked great and they're all --
they're 180 pounds and I've got
to squeeze my 235 between them,
and I'm laying there and
I'm thinking, okay, I can --
you know, it's only a two
hour flight to Chicago,
and all of sudden the little
kid behind me starts singing --
because I'm kind of steaming
a little bit and sweating,
being all human, you know,
-- dragging my knuckles --
I shouldn't have to sit in
the middle seat, these guys --
and the girl behind me starts
singing, if you're happy
and you know it clap
your hands [laughter].
>> GN: What happened
to you in 1996?
>> John St. Augustine: 1996.
Oh boy, it was a major upheaval.
I was working as a teacher and
working in sports marketing.
Life was kind of going
okay, and I had ended
up giving a commencement
address in upper Michigan --
where I still live half
the time, and came back
from that commencement address
with these Native American
people I had just met,
at the time, and my
life started changing.
I thought something -- I'm
missing something here.
The corporate stuff ain't
working, and I was in the middle
of the business deal --
even if they catch you
and you got a lot a
lawyers, you're still
on vacation half the year.
>> GN: Sure.
>> John St. Augustine:
And it was unraveling,
and my life was unraveling,
and no matter where I went
in Chicago, no matter what
I tried to do, doors closed.
So, the same people whose kid
was in the commencement address
that I spoke at -- why
don't you come live up here?
They have a 10-room
motel on US Highway 2
in the Raft River,
nowhere, Michigan.
I thought what in the
world would I do up there?
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
And the guy's like,
what are you doing down there?
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: Long and
short of it, packed everything
up in a horse trailer.
Put everything in storage.
Put my kids in kindergarten.
I sat in this room for two
weeks, and that six months prior
to that, I started having
these snapshot morning visions.
I'd see myself in the -- with a
backpack on, on the setting sun
on my left, walking on the side
of the road with a big beard.
Every other morning.
Drove me nuts.
Didn't know what it
meant, and I got up there,
the kids are in school.
I'm in there for two weeks,
I have the same vision.
I go see the gentlemen who's
-- I mentioned earlier,
Bruce Hardwick, who
owns this lodge.
He's a Ojibwa Firekeeper,
elder for the area.
I give him some tobacco, which
is very important to them,
and he takes me out back in
the forest and he's as tall
as he is wide, with white hair,
you know, and he holds my hand
and he says, you're
being given a chance
to start your life over.
Again? You're being
given a vision --
like it happens all the
time, which it doesn't.
And he said you can go
back the way you came
or you can see what
the great mystery has.
I took door number two.
I was out of work, didn't
have anything going on.
Everything going in storage.
Three cars sitting in a parking
lot at a motel in room nine
and 10, and didn't
know what to do.
>> GN: Were you on Xanax then?
>> John St. Augustine: No.
I should have been.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
But I wasn't.
And I knew I had to walk.
I'd seen it, and so I said
to him, I have to walk,
and I think I have
to walk to Chicago,
which I just left two weeks ago.
He said, okay.
We go that night
to a big ceremony.
They got a fire going.
There's a bunch of people
there I kind of hardly know,
and I said I'm going to walk
from where I just drove 350
miles north, and a guy stands
up on the other side --
a guy named Dwayne Kanart
[assumed spelling] stands
up on the other side of the
fire and goes I'll go with you.
I thought you're
out of your mind.
He's got a job, you know
-- crazier than I am.
Couple days later,
another guy heard about it.
He goes with us.
There's three of us.
Could have never seen that
when I just got that snapshot.
Long and short of it
is, September, October,
November we left upper
Michigan, about 100 miles south
of the Canadian border and
walked to Chicago on foot.
It's not a straight shot.
It's illegal to walk
on the freeway,
so it started zigzagging,
so a 350 miles turns
into about 700 miles.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
And, amazing experiences...
>> GN: Sounds like Forrest Gump.
>> John St. Augustine:
Before the movie, I did it.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
It was really something.
And the beard came and
the whole nine yards.
It's a great weight loss thing.
I ate nuts, and berries,
and things.
And on the way down
it was quite a thing.
It was in the news and we
got motels given to us,
and quite pampered
on the way down.
We get all the way to
Chicago, and they leave.
He's got to go back to work.
The other guy -- Joe Johnson
leaves, and there I am
in Chicago going what do
I do now, and the voice --
you got to walk back alone.
So that was really the walk
for me, was the undoing
of what had been
done in my life.
Really pulling up the leaf
systems and deep roots
that we all have
that we're not --
you know, it's like
you can cut the grass,
but the weeds always come back
until you pull the roots out,
so my life's about
pulling out roots,
and -- or as they say roots.
And so I did that walk back
and it was very difficult.
Nobody -- no motels,
nobody following me.
About every three days,
somebody would check on me.
And one day outside of
Oconomowoc, Wisconsin,
George I stopped
dead in my tracks.
I'm standing the same
scene that I had seen
in my brain for months.
How's that possible?
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: My
wirings all going crazy,
you know, and I stood there
and I had a stick in my hand,
and a bear here, and
the sun was on my left,
and I saw the exact same road.
How could that be?
How could you see
before it happens?
I don't have an answer for
that, but I'm just glad it did.
And as soon as I was
standing there, this --
I didn't want to move.
I thought this is the
coolest thing in the world,
and the wind came
off the lake and kind
of moved me a little bit, and
this voice said in my head --
clear as a bell,
John, go on the radio.
Sure, I'm living in a motel.
I have no experience.
I'll go on the radio,
you know, what the hell.
So, I started walking and about
an hour later a woman checked
on me for the day,
and I got in her car,
and a gentleman we both
know -- Barry Farber.
>> GN: Uh-huh.
>> John St. Augustine:
On the radio
in her little battered Toyota.
I said, I'm going
to do what he does.
She's like, you just need a hot
shower and a shot of bourbon,
you'll be all right, because she
knew I knew nothing about radio.
>> GN: Right.
>> John St. Augustine:
I finished that walk two
days before Thanksgiving --
it took three months,
and the last,
probably the most
profound thing --
there was a couple that
was really important.
One is that my friend, Bruce
followed me that last week
with his car, and we were
driving up M-35, which is a road
that connects Wisconsin and
Michigan and it's very much next
to the lake and it gets
dark early, it was raining
and snowing, and he was
behind me and he kept
about a 50 foot distance And
his headlights would illuminate
where I walked, and I
was walking and walking.
If I'd stop, he'd stop and
if I'd walk, he'd drive,
and I had this weird epiphany.
I thought, the light
-- the light...
>> GN: The light.
>> John St. Augustine:
The light comes from us --
that comes through us,
if we stop, it stops.
If we retreat, it retreats.
How dare I not move
forward with what I'm given.
And the second thing
that happened is the day
that the walk ended, I --
he had gone ahead of me to get
some coffee and I wandered off
into the woods of Upper
Michigan and I collapsed.
I was done, covered with
snow, laying there I woke up.
I don't know how long later.
He was driving back and
forth trying to find me,
and I wandered back
out to the road.
He said we have to go see where
you fell, so we go walking back
to where I had landed
in the woods
and there's a perfect
outline, like a chalk...
>> GN: Like an angel.
>> John St. Augustine:
...of my body,
but it had snowed overnight,
so there was like three
or four inches of
snow on the ground,
and it was still early enough
that the ground wasn't frozen,
and here's this perfect
outline of John's body,
and the only green part showing
through -- where my heart was.
>> GN: Was your heart.
>> John St. Augustine:
And to him,
that was the end of the journey.
That was a big deal, so.
That's -- that's what happened.
>> GN: You've gone
through a lot.
>> John St. Augustine:
I hope that's enough.
Some of it kind of wears
me out a little bit.
It's like, really, again?
But, you know, I think
I signed up for this.
This is my way.
And I try to remind people
that you don't have to go --
I think there -- you know,
it's like running
interference in football.
Some people just got to take
the hits and the other ones get
to go walk across the goal line.
>> GN: Yep.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: If there's a message
you wanted to convey to people
about what you went through,
for them what would that be?
>> John St. Augustine: You know,
it's not what happens to you,
it's how you respond to it
that is a big part of it.
A lot of this stuff is very
cliche, but it becomes real
when you experience it.
I think that, you know,
truly, truly, truly,
in all the people sitting in the
audience, people watching this
on -- at home, you and I
this -- we're all connected.
We don't have to like
it, but inevitability...
>> GN: It is what it is.
>> John St. Augustine: ...we're
going to be shoved together.
You know, I'd always
say, you know,
when you squeeze an orange
you get orange juice,
you squeeze tomatoes,
you get tomato juice,
you squeeze people, all
kind of crap comes out.
And our job, once we
get squeezed in life,
is to clean that crap up.
That's what we're here to do,
and we can help each other.
You know, I listen
to you all the time
and these conversations you're
having with people are --
are here to get things clearer.
You know, the Lout Sioux says,
can you stand in the river
of life while the
silt gets kicked up?
Can you stand in
the river of life
until the silt settles,
you can see clearly.
What you realize is, we're
the ones kicking the silt up,
and then we go look,
what's happening?
We're doing it.
There's no -- it's us,
you know, it's on us.
>> GN: So true.
Let's take some more questions
for John St. Augustine.
Yes, mam. Way in the back.
>> Hi, John.
>> John St. Augustine: Morning.
>> I'm curious the
electrical current --
do you think that that
could possibly be the reason
for your heightened
sense of awareness?
>> John St. Augustine:
I absolutely do.
I've -- ever since then
I've never really shied away
from electrical things.
I remember one time about 10
years after that happened,
I went to a wedding
and they had one
of those champagne
fountains, and for some reason,
I was reaching to touch that --
I think it was made
out of copper,
and I was touching something
that was wet and I got it again.
It was only 120 volts.
It was like that
kind of feels good.
Nice little tune up, you know.
I don't recommend that you stick
your finger in a wall socket,
but if we're energy,
which we are, you can tell
when you have high
energy, low energy.
You can tell when you're
listening to George's show
and you go, wow,
and you lean forward
and you're not even there.
You ever had that happen?
Or the hair on your arm stands
up when you hear a certain song?
That's all energy.
And you can tell when
you're around people --
my mom used to say, birds
of a feather flock together.
I always say if you don't
like the flock you're with,
tell them to flock off, but you
can tell when people bring you
down and you can tell
when people lift you up.
That's energy.
So, the electrical parts
of us that we all have --
that's why they have
pacemakers, it's electrical.
So, the electrical
energy that went into me,
in some ways I kind of keep
it bouncing around inside me
by the music I listen to, by
the people I hang out with,
but the things that I read.
We -- our bodies are fed
physically by what we eat,
but our -- that energetic
body really does pick
up on our surroundings
and things that we --
that we listen to
and tune in to.
>> GN: You did a
little work with Dr. Oz.
>> John St. Augustine: I did.
I did. Dr. Oz, as we call him.
>> GN: Good man.
>> John St. Augustine:
He's a very good man.
We call him Dr. Oz.
It's very nefarious.
>> GN: That's because nobody
can pronounce his first name.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
Well, you know, Mehmet
in Turkish means John.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
So, it's very common.
But I did.
I did four years working
with the Oprah radio thing,
and I kind of -- I've done
my own radio show for years,
and years, and years, and I had
to kind of get out of that role,
they needed me to coach these
people that were, kind of,
handpicked by the Oprah
staff to be on radio.
They're all great
four minute TV people.
>> GN: Sure.
>> John St. Augustine:
But not in the long runs,
they need different outlets.
>> GN: Different animal.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, you got to kind
of get to whip a chair out.
And Mehmet's a fantastic guy.
He's a world-renowned
heart surgeon,
but he is much like I am.
We're both very much
Neanderthal knuckle draggers.
You need to push against
that, and so we had a --
we still do, have a
great relationship.
He said something -- he wrote
the forward to my second book,
and in there he said
something that I heard him say
to people a lot, and
it was very profound.
He said that the human heart,
which he's very well-aware
of how it works -- the very
first pump it has every time it
pumps does not go out to the
veins and arteries of the body,
it goes back into
the heart itself,
and it feeds itself first.
Humans don't do that.
We're -- I'll take care of you.
I'll take care of you.
I'll make you happy,
and we lessen our energetic
field by doing that.
So, working with
Mehmet those four years,
and we stay in touch,
every month
or so we talk, even
through email.
When I watch him on TV now,
he said his first most important
mission is to keep people
out of the operating room.
It's the last thing you want
to do, so he's a great guy,
a great friend, I'm
very, you know --
he gets on TV and
gives me credit for --
he can talk for more
than seven minutes now.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: So,
that's a good outcome, so.
>> GN: I have another
question for John.
Who's got one?
Yes, mam.
>> Sally: Hi, John.
My name is Sally.
>> John St. Augustine:
Hi, Sally.
>> Sally: Hi.
It's so easy to get caught up
in the routine, in the drudgery
of day-to-day life, and
so it's all about me, me,
me and you were talking
about the we.
How can we get to the we
when we're dealing
with our daily lives?
>> John St. Augustine:
When you're dealing with --
trying to get out of
me and get into we?
>> Sally: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, and, you know,
they came out with
game called Wii --
I think there's more to
it then they realize.
You know, doing something
for somebody else is
always the easiest way,
and I don't mean your
kids, if you have kids.
That's easy.
That's that stuff that's
part of the Monday routine.
But it's stretching yourself
where you usually don't stretch.
It's putting yourself
in sometimes uncomfortable
positions,
because that's how we grow.
You know, there's a
kinesiology term --
I was a trainer for years,
and when I would train people,
there's a term called SAID --
I mentioned this on your
show, when I was on.
Specific Adaptation
to Imposed Demands --
and if you ever work out,
that's what these workout
routines are all about.
Your body specifically adapts
to the demand you put on it,
and so if you work out a lot
you'll look a certain way,
and if you don't, you
look a certain way.
It's very simple, but it
applies to our life too.
That our life -- the
demand placed on our life,
we've adapted to
that very quickly.
That's why the Macarena, if I
say, hey, you go Macarena --
yeah, well okay, whatever,
but that's an adaptive thing
it doesn't take very long
to get to.
Humans adapt very quickly.
To get out of the
adaptive process,
you've got to shake it up.
So, you see these guys doing
these ridiculous workout
routines, there's a reason.
The body only takes
seven days to adapt,
then when you shift it, the
body keeps changing, so people,
for example, would go
park in the same spot,
eat lunch at the same
time, sit at the same desk,
do the same -- we're so adapted.
Your job, should you choose
to accept it, is either, A --
wait to get electrocuted
or a car accident,
which will shake you
out of that, or B --
start finding little
things you can do to get
in a un-comfort zone, because
we're in our comfort zones.
And most people say, you know,
we -- most people it'd be 75,
but we die when we're
20, we just don't go
in the box for about 50 years.
Got to get out of
the comfort zone.
>> GN: [Background talking] Do
we need a near death experience
in our lives?
>> John St. Augustine: No.
You asked me this
a couple a times.
You know, these near
death experiences are
about getting you
nearer to life.
For me they are.
We don't need that.
I think that there's examples,
and not that anybody's better
or worse -- special or not
special -- gifted or not gifted,
but when you read about
someone who, you know,
went through some
horrible experience, and --
a few years ago there was a
shooting as an Amish school,
and the Amish people came out
and forgave these
people right way.
Could you do that?
>> GN: No.
>> John St. Augustine: Right.
But there's an opportunity
to go,
that's way out of
my comfort zone.
I may not get to that
point, but what point --
can I forgive the guy for
cutting me off in traffic.
You know, these things
are presented
to us all these different ways
on this giant blackboard
we call life,
and all these lessons
keep showing up,
and we're in class all
the time, until we're not.
So these are opportunities that
we don't have to experience it,
but because we're the we -- if
you're a parent, you hear that,
you're like, oh, your
heart's breaking.
If you've ever had somebody --
you've lost somebody
close, you feel it.
So, that's how we feel
through each other
and so that's how we can grow
from other people's experience
without having to
get hit by a car.
>> GN: Let's take one
more question for John.
Yes, mam.
>> Leslie: Hi, my
name is Leslie.
>> John St. Augustine:
Hi, Leslie.
>> Leslie: And I work
with horses and humans.
>> John St. Augustine: Oh.
>> Leslie: So that
connection is a very --
I'm feeling a lot of
vibrations from that and...
>> John St. Augustine: Sure.
>> Leslie: So, I was wondering
if you felt any closer
to animals and that was
part of your way of,
maybe connecting more
with [inaudible],
because we're not
the only species..
>> John St. Augustine:
You bet ya.
>> Leslie:...on this planet.
>> John St. Augustine:
That's a perfect question.
Thanks. I have a cat and
as Eckhart Tolle said,
he said I met several -- I
have met several Zen masters
in my life, they're all cats.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
And I have dogs.
And I've had dogs in my life,
and animals absolutely --
you know, we think we're the
-- because we have everything,
we think we know everything,
and therefore we are everything,
and you're right, we are the
youngest species on the planet,
and yet we have figured
out that we're at the top
of the food chain, which
isn't always the case.
And so, yes, I think
the connection
through animals is
profound for me.
I was already, kind of,
connected before those
things, even more so now.
If I can spend five minutes
with a dog -- forget the people,
I want to talk to the animals,
and Chief Dan George said,
you know, a lot of a lot
of people talk to animals,
but most don't listen, and
that's really what it's about.
Horses -- oh my, I got goose
bumps thinking about that.
You get time to spend around
those kind of creatures
that were here before
us -- think about this,
in our present form as humans --
putting aside all the
spiritual aspects,
but the physical form we have
now, about 10,000 years --
we're the youngest
kids on the block.
We act like we know
everything and we don't.
And when we start
destroying the very systems
that sustain our lives,
every one of those creatures
that we share the planet with,
they're kind of the canary
in the cage for what's
going on with the planet.
We're doing it ourselves,
you know.
Chief Seattle said if
you continue to crap
in your own bed, one day you
suffocate in your own waste.
Not hard to figure out.
But that's all ego-driven stuff.
When you get out of that and you
start to see our place in this,
and when we're losing species
the way we are, and when we --
these animals, kind of, you
know, you can watch what's going
on in their lives, they're,
kind of, messengers for us,
and if we don't pay attention,
one day we'll turn around
and go hey, guess
who's at the top
of the endangered species list?
Us.
>> GN: I always like
those stories
where somebody's cat died.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
>> GN: But they see the
paw prints on their bed...
>> John St. Augustine: Oh, yes.
>> GN: ...and stuff like that.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
I really -- you know, I 've had
a real interesting 36 months,
I don't need to get into all
that, but this cat has been
with me for 12 years and
the last three years,
mostly just myself.
>> GN: That's a long
time for a cat.
>> John St. Augustine: It is.
And her name is Nanabozho.
It means the trickster in
Ojibwa Native American language.
Every morning it's
the same routine.
She gets up and she sits
on my chest, and I --
she just sits there and looks
at me and scares the hell
out of me, and I'm thinking
what are you trying to tell me,
because she always starts
the morning out like that,
and to me, it's like -- even if
it's nothing more than going,
I'm glad you woke up,
now you can feed me.
I'll take it.
>> GN: That's what she wants.
>> John St. Augustine:
That's exactly right.
>> GN: You don't think
much of psychics.
How come?
>> John St. Augustine:
Well, it's like this.
Sometimes we all have
different vehicles
and everybody here came -- drove
in, or whatever, with somebody
and it's usually one
of about eight models,
and all the power plants
are basically the same,
the cars just look
different on the outside.
I think we all have the
same basic power plant.
I think we all have
the same wiring,
but we have different
connections,
and I think when you look
to someone else instead
of developing your
own abilities --
you know, the gentleman
who drove me here.
We have a great conversation
about things that
happened to him.
We all have things that
happen to us, but we rarely,
especially men, acknowledge
it and it's like a faucet.
So, when you don't acknowledge
it, the universe goes oh,
you don't need it,
okay I'll turn it off.
The more acknowledge it -- a
Dr. Ozism, I don't even know
if you call it that, but I'll
call it that, he said, you know,
if you take a shower and
you've got a shower curtain
with the rings on it, when
you pull the first one,
all the rest come.
So, in your life when
something psychic happens
or something weird
happens and you pull
that first ring, the
rest keep coming.
You can accept them or
deny them as you wish.
So going to someone else to tell
you what you probably already
know, I find fascinating.
I'm not saying it's wrong
or right, I'm just not a fan
of developing your own GPS
-- your own inner guidance.
We all have it, we just
ignore it most of the time.
It's the same thing with -- you
know, I've had these experiences
of life after death, and I --
again this is no slam on anybody
who does that, but if we spent
the time that we should spend
with people while we're here, we
wouldn't be so eager to go find
out if they're okay over there.
>> GN: That's so true.
>> John St. Augustine:
They're more okay
over there than we are here.
You can't change that, so again,
the clock never goes backward.
If you're lucky,
you get 28,000 days.
I've had friends of mine
who left a lot earlier,
I miss them terribly, but I
spent the time and squeezed it
out with them, and then when
they're gone I go, got it,
I'll see ya next time.
>> GN: Are you convinced
the other side does exist?
>> John St. Augustine:
Absolutely.
You know, I don't know what --
everybody gets the proof in
the way they need to get it.
I've been doing a lot of quote
thinkers, I apologize for that,
but it -- everybody
gets the proof
in the way that they need it.
Our blueprints are individual.
You can have things show up.
I've had visitations and all
these other things from people,
and the more I say yes to it --
you know, Nike was all
about just say -- say --
there was that just
say no to drugs thing,
that's good for drugs, but
saying no to life is not good,
because then the
faucet gets turned off,
and the more you accept
this stuff, the more --
the thinner the veil
-- or the curtain gets.
I love it now.
I love running into things
and weird stuff happening.
It's like, this is so cool.
There is a there,
it's just not here.
>> GN: In your book,
Living the Uncommon Life .
>> John St. Augustine: Yes.
>> GN: You talk about 21
individuals you have affected
your life in some
form or fashion.
Who's the number one?
>> John St. Augustine:
Well, it's John Denver.
>> GN: That was a tragic story.
>> John St. Augustine: Well,
it's a tragic story, but it's --
it's the kinds of thing
that never leaves you...
>> GN: It's emotional for you.
>> John St. Augustine:
Very emotional, you know,
it's like I said, you start out
at one level and then you work
through different
levels in life,
and then these connections
come and you go, huh, huh, huh,
you know, why is this happened.
Not so much how it's happening,
but why is this happening?
And when I was a kid growing up
in Chicago, for whatever reason,
his music got into my head.
I wanted to know there was
a place that was, like here,
where there's mountains
and eagles and things,
and it just -- it got
in -- it seeped into me,
and that's not normal
in Chicago,
and I kind of kept it to myself.
And years later, my aunt
lived in Wheat Ridge, Colorado
and I got to meet
him at a fundraiser
and I thought, oh that's great.
But it was just the beginning
of the iceberg kind of thing.
And eventually, got
more and more frequent,
and then there was an
organization called Windstar
up in Aspen -- snow masks, and
they would do these symposiums
and people from all over the
world, and John was a kind
of celebrity and, you know,
his music touched people all
over the world and people
came to these things
and great thoughts, and Jacques
Cousteau and Ted Turner --
maybe shouldn't be in the same
sentence, but you get my drift.
All these great thinkers came
and I thought this is
how the world could be.
What happens if we
change our thoughts.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: And
then we change how we approach
the world.
You know, it's that
tipping point stuff.
It's that critical mass.
What if you get enough
people thinking at a level
where things work, as
opposed to not working,
so John was all about that.
And I had a profound
experience in 1992.
I was sitting in Chicago --
I had met John over the years
and all well and good,
watching the  Tonight Show ,
and Jay Leno was in his early
years and he comes out and says,
I guess tonight is John Denver,
and he comes walking out,
and this voice says you have
to go meet him in Boston.
And I'm on the couch half asleep
when usually that stuff comes
when I have my [background
talking].
>> GN: Did you know
him well at that point?
>> John St. Augustine:
Well, I knew enough
that we knew each
other, you know, he...
>> GN: He recognized
you and stuff like that.
>> John St. Augustine:
Yeah, sure, you know,
and first name basis
kind of thing.
And I had gone past the music.
It was more about what he
was saying about who he was.
>> GN: Right.
>> John St. Augustine: It was
what was coming through him.
And he had a phenomenal voice,
you know, five octave range,
you just don't hear that
stuff anymore, so anyway,
all that stuff was there,
and he was going to be
at the Wang Center
in Boston, and I --
the voice -- I have to go.
Why? Doesn't matter, so
I buy a ticket to Boston
and a couple weeks later I
find myself at the Wang Center.
Chris O'Connor, John's road
manager, says what's up
and he says I'm here
to see John,
he says do you have a
ticket to the concert --
I'm like no, he goes
why you here.
I go, I don't know.
So, why, I mean, why
would I go all the way --
it made no sense to me.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Logically, it didn't ring,
but inside the GPS was going,
you're in the right direction,
and so I get to the concert and
he says I'll leave you a ticket.
I get there, I'm
40 minutes early.
Beautiful place,
the Wang Center.
John was such a giving guy.
He was doing a concert
for Catholic charities,
raised a quarter
million in one night,
you know, one of those deals.
>> GN: Good for him.
>> John St. Augustine: And
they come walking in late.
John comes walking in with
James Burton, his guitar player,
and he looks at me and he
goes, what are you doing here?
I'm thinking there'd be like
some sort of trumpets, you know,
like he -- here, I
know why you're here.
That wasn't the case,
and because he was late
because of weather, they said
well, he can't see you tonight.
So I'm downstairs under -- he
goes like -- Chris says well,
I can feed you and then I can
give you a ticket to the show.
So, I'm downstairs
underneath the stadium --
or the stage at the Wang
Center eating cheeseburgers,
while the guitars are
being electronically tuned.
I'm thinking, I must
have crossed my wires.
What am I doing here?
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine: So
I walked back upstairs,
and Chris is there --
I said well, where are
you going to be tomorrow?
He said, I'll be in Pittsburgh.
I said well, I'll go there.
He goes okay.
Five -- five minutes
after the concert,
because I have no
idea why I'm there.
Concert's phenomenal,
go backstage,
all these people
waiting to see John.
I walk up, he gives me a hug,
and he says what
are you going here?
And I thought he'd -- he would
know, like some profound thing.
>> GN: Right.
>> John St. Augustine:
Something [background talking].
And I said, you don't
know, and he goes no,
I don't know [laughter].
And all of sudden it was
like I had these letters
in my pocket -- I had
been doing some speaking
about [inaudible] issues
around Chicago, and I --
oh, I've got to give
him these letters,
and I give him the letters and
he -- and he looks at them, and,
you know, we're backstage
and people are looking
at their watch waiting on him,
and he gets this big
grin on his face.
You know, when John smiled
it was like a kid got
out of school early, you know.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
Like something --
and something connected
with these letters.
And he said, you know, we've
been trying to do something
like this at Windstar for years.
You're doing it.
We need to figure out
how to do it up there.
Oh, that was it.
I delivered the mail.
Like a mailman.
Great.
>> GN: Is that the message?
>> John St. Augustine:
This is it.
Oh, I feel much better
okay, so I --
we shook hands, we'll
stay in touch.
He said go put the letters
in my bag, I do, I leave.
Life is grand.
A couple weeks later, maybe
a month, I get a phone call
from the Windstar people.
John brought the letters, oh,
you know, mission accomplished.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> John St. Augustine:
The universe is great.
That wasn't the end it.
That was the beginning of it.
Two years later, I had to go
in to the Windstar Events,
driving from Chicago
-- my family and I,
and early in 1994 I was
teaching high school
and the Windstar
Event that year --
I got a flyer in the mail
that said Windstar "Choices
For The Future: The Human
Family" and something happened
in my head, and I went to
class, and I kind of floated
through the day and
by the time I got home
that night, I had
written lyrics.
I don't write lyrics, at all.
I wrote lyrics called
the human family.
Came right out and I folded
it up and put it away,
and I somehow knew at some point
I was supposed to do something
with them at this
event in August.
This was in May.
All summer I rode
the rollercoaster --
I'm supposed to be there,
not supposed to be there,
supposed to be there,
and it went crazy.
So finally, two weeks
before the event,
I'm cleaning the cat box
-- a very Zen-like thing,
cleaning the cat box --
different cat, and the
phone rings upstairs
and we didn't even have like
an answering thing, or whatever
and I -- it was one of those
rings, you know, you get like,
I've got to answer this.
So I went upstairs, and
it was John's office,
and they said Mr. Denver
asked us to call --
are you coming out to
Windstar this year?
I said yeah, planning
on it in two weeks, yep.
They said well, Dr. Mae Jemison,
first female black astronaut
in history, cancelled today.
John says you're
supposed to speak.
I hadn't been on the radio,
hadn't written a book.
>> GN: None of that
had happened.
>> John St. Augustine: None
of that had happened yet.
So, instead of going out there,
somehow these tumblers got
in line and I finally, two
weeks later, found myself flying
out to Aspen, getting up
in front of 3,000 people
at the Aspen Music Tent.
This is way out of
my comfort zone,
and I delivered the
human family that day --
that morning, it was 45 minutes.
>> GN: Were you nervous?
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
I was very nervous, you know.
I was like, what is this, you
know, and so John invited me
to come out and he put in
place -- but I want to --
when I get to this point when
I tell this story to people,
I go back to Boston, and
something he said to me
that was profound that put
that in place two years later.
When I gave him those letters --
this is where I always
have a hard time.
I try to skip it, but I can't.
When I gave him the --
when I gave him the
letters, he looked at them.
He looked up at me
and he said --
he put his hand on
my shoulder --
forgive me, I just --
I see it, you know.
He put his hand on my shoulder
and he says do you know
that your voice matters?
No one ever told me that.
Do you know that
your voice matters?
I said no, I don't.
He said the coming years will
prove me right, and to this day,
I spend most of my
time reminding people
that our voices matter,
because no one ever told me
and when it came
right to the point --
and not only did
he tell me that,
he gave me the platform
to do it.
And, George it was off that
morning in Aspen in August
of 1994 that everything
else came --
the books, radio,
TV, the speaking.
>> GN: It all clicked.
>> John St. Augustine:
All clicked,
so the connect the dots is one
thing, but we also play a game
of tag, you're it,
while we're alive.
And without that, I wouldn't
be sitting here today.
>> GN: And how sad,
when we lost him, John.
How sad. If people want
more information on you,
and where they can
look at your works.
>> John St. Augustine: And they
can see the hate mail you sent
me that I posted on the website.
>> GN: The hate mail
that I sent you.
I don't send out hate mail.
>> John St. Augustine:
No, no, no, it's all good.
It's just -- it's simple,
Johnstaugustine.com.
My books are there.
There are some videos
of some talks I've given
and I write a blog every day
called "Notes From the North,"
where I kind of go on some
rants, and it's a great place
to find me on the web.
>> GN: I'm glad you survived
your two experiences.
>> John St. Augustine: Me too.
>> GN: No more, okay.
>> John St. Augustine: Okay.
We'll take it easy...
>> GN: For a long, long time.
>> John St. Augustine:
Just drink soda pop
and watch television.
>> GN: While you're refreshing
and, you know, you give all
of us something to look forward
to if we're ever
in that situation.
>> John St. Augustine: Yeah.
Do not despair.
It's -- there's more to
this than meets the eye,
and just remember -- I remind
myself to his every day,
you know, it's not
what happens to you,
it really is your response,
and in your response
if your opportunity to grow
like you never had the chance.
That stuff's there for a
reason, and sometimes it's there
for a season, but it's there for
us to overcome, not be consumed.
It doesn't reveal us.
It shouldn't define you,
it should reveal you
and that's where we grow.
It's all good.
>> GN: Well, none of us
really want to have to go
to the other side
-- not just yet.
He did twice, but came back.
Let's hear it for
John St. Augustine.
[ Applause ]
[ Music ]